#summary Atlassian JIRA, Confluence and Bamboo Plugin

= Atlassian JIRA, Confluence and Bamboo Plugin =


	If you want to monitor a [http://www.atlassian.com/software/jira/ JIRA],
	[http://www.atlassian.com/software/confluence/ Confluence] or a [http://www.atlassian.com/software/bamboo/ Bamboo] server, you can install JavaMelody easily
	with a JIRA/Confluence/Bamboo plugin. For this, [https://plugins.atlassian.com/plugins/net.bull.javamelody download] the jar file of the plugin
	and copy the file in the "{{{JIRA x.x.x/atlassian-jira/WEB-INF/lib}}}" directory for JIRA, in "{{{Bamboo/webapp/WEB-INF/lib}}}" for Bamboo or with the "Plugin manager" in the "Administration" menu for Confluence.

	Restart the server.

	Then you can open the report from the address {{{http://<host>:<port>/monitoring}}} (the "Monitoring" link is also available in the "Administration" menu).
	That's it in general.

	Notes: The jdbc connections and the SQL requests are monitored automatically in JIRA 4.3.x or before, and they are monitored in JIRA 4.4+, Confluence and Bamboo if a jdbc datasource from jndi is used, instead of the default direct jdbc connection.

	To configure Confluence with a datasource, see [http://confluence.atlassian.com/display/DOC/Database+Configuration this] or [http://confluence.atlassian.com/display/DOC/Configuring+a+PostgreSQL+Datasource+in+Apache+Tomcat this].
	
	To configure Bamboo with a datasource, see [http://confluence.atlassian.com/display/BAMBOO/Connecting+Bamboo+to+an+external+database this].
	Alternatively for Bamboo, it is possible to replace the default hsqldb driver by the following in {{{bamboo-home/bamboo.cfg.xml}}}:
	{{{
	<property name="hibernate.connection.driver">org.hsqldb.jdbcDriver</property>
	<property name="hibernate.connection.driver_class">net.bull.javamelody.JdbcDriver</property>
	}}}

	Since *JIRA 4.4*, the database configuration has been changed by Atlassian as said [http://confluence.atlassian.com/display/JIRA/JIRA+4.4+Upgrade+Notes#JIRA44UpgradeNotes-MigratingYourDatabaseConfiguration here].
	If you are using JIRA 4.4 or later, you need to use a jdbc datasource from jndi in order to monitor jdbc connections and SQL requests.

	To use a datasource, replace in the dbconfig.xml file "{{{<jdbc-datasource>...</jdbc-datasource>}}}"
	with "{{{<jndi-datasource><jndi-name>java:comp/env/jdbc/JiraDS</jndi-name></jndi-datasource>}}}" (take a backup before),
	and add a Resource element for a datasource inside the Context element of the Tomcat's "JIRA/conf/server.xml" file:

{{{
	...
	<Context ... > 
		...
		<Resource name="jdbc/JiraDS" auth="Container" type="javax.sql.DataSource"
			username="[enter db username]"
			password="[enter db password]"
			driverClassName="com.mysql.jdbc.Driver"
			url="jdbc:mysql://localhost/jiradb?useUnicode=true&amp;characterEncoding=UTF8"
			maxActive="20"
			maxIdle="10"
			validationQuery="select 1"
		/>
       </Context>
	...
}}}
	
	Or see this [http://confluence.atlassian.com/display/JIRA043/Connecting+JIRA+to+MySQL#ConnectingJIRAtoMySQL-51ConfigureyourapplicationservertoconnecttoMySQL example of datasource from Atlassian]. The values in your Resource element should be inspired by the values that were just removed from your dbconfig.xml file.
	And so the jndi datasource will be automatically monitored after restart.


	The data files will be stored by default in <installation directory>/temp/javamelody/. If you want to use another *storage directory*, add a "javamelody.storage-directory" system property (in <installation directory>/bin/setenv.sh or in <installation directory>/conf/catalina.properties). For example:

{{{
	... -Djavamelody.storage-directory=/my/path
}}}

	In JIRA, Confluence and Bamboo, you can also send *weekly, daily or monthly reports* in pdf format by mail to one or several people.
	This is explained in the chapter [UserGuide#14._Weekly,_daily_or_monthly_reports_by_mail Weekly, daily or monthly reports by mail].

	For example, for JIRA:
	
	Copy the "mail-1.4.4.jar" and "activation-1.1.1.jar" files from the "JIRA/atlassian-jira/WEB-INF/lib/" directory
	to the "JIRA/lib/" directory.
	And add the following Resource and Parameter lines inside the Context element of the "JIRA/conf/server.xml" file:
	
{{{
	...
	<Context ... > 
		...
		<Resource name="mail/JavaMelodySession" auth="Container" type="javax.mail.Session"
			mail.smtp.host="<smtp server>"
			mail.smtp.user="<login>"
			mail.from="JIRA JavaMelody plugin"
		/>
		<Parameter name='javamelody.admin-emails' value='admin1@company.com,admin2@company.com' override='false'/>
		<Parameter name='javamelody.mail-session' value='java:comp/env/mail/JavaMelodySession' override='false'/>
		<Parameter name='javamelody.mail-periods' value='day,week,month' override='false'/>
	</Context>
	...
}}}